[MUSIC]
>> Jafar Husain: So
when searchButtonClicks happens,
we know we want to cause a side effect.
We want to show something on screen.
But we also might want
to use that as a stream
of information to create
our searchResultSets.
Why would that be?
Remember the goal here.
It's when the search screen is open,
we wanna begin listening to the clicks in
the text, to the keys of the text
box,,and start generating search results.
But as soon as somebody
closes the search screen
we don't wanna be subscribed
up to that text box anymore.
That gives us, again, the flexibility
later on to remove the DOM elements and
we won't have a memory leak.
So let's go back to our
searchResultSets and
let's make it a little bit more complex.
Let's listen for
the searchButtonClicks and
only begin listening for
key presses after a searchButtonClick.
So see how I've used map
to order things here.
I'm saying, now, don't subscribe
up to key presses all the time.
Just subscribe up when somebody
has clicked the search button.
>> Jafar Husain: So
remember, map orders things.
It means that this function,
this map function,
is only gonna get executed
when a click happens.
It necessarily has to happen that way,
right?
This whole function can only get
executed when we get a click event.
Now I don't particularly care about the
click event, but it will be passed in so
that's why I just left it out.
In general, I recommend that.
If you don't care about the input from
a stream just leave out the identifier.
Cuz it causes less calling
it an overload rather than
introducing identifiers, they're not used.
Cuz some developer might look at that and
assume that variable's used somewhere.
For the same reason you wouldn't declare
a variable and then never use it.
It's like an unused variable.
So now we see that we're only going to
begin listening to key presses
when the search button is clicked.
But how many dimensions
is this collection now?
>> Jafar Husain: What data type is this?
What's this whole sub expression?
>> Jafar Husain: What did I hear?
>> Off Camera 1: It's an observable.
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, it's an observable
So if we map over an observable, and for
every entry inside we return another
observable, how many dimensions are we?
>> Jafar Husain: Two, right?
For the same reason that
if I take an array,
>> Jafar Husain: Go back to the old
example, and I do this.
>> Jafar Husain: I get
>> Jafar Husain: This.
So whenever we map and then for
every entry we return another observable,
we end up with a two
dimensional observable.
And so that means we need to do what?
>> Off Camera 1: Concat.
>> Jafar Husain: Is it concat?
So what are our options?
Let's talk about the options and
which one we should use.
>> Off Camera 2: It's always
gonna be switchLatest.
It's always switchLatest.
>> Jafar Husain: [LAUGH] Well,
I don't know about always.
I didn't say always but
most of the time, certainly.
Now, which one would we wanna use?
Well, it might be switchLatest because
obviously the next time somebody clicks
a search button we don't want to listen
to keep presses multiple times, right?
So somebody clicks a search button
twice we don't to be listening to key
presses twice.
Which was effectively what happened if we
didn't switch to the latest one, right?
But now we have an interesting case here,
we have an interesting case.
Because switchLatest is great for
those times.
You remember we talked
about this yesterday.
SwitchLatest is great for those times when
you want to stop listening to an inner
observable based on the same event that
causes another observable to be created.
So in this case, I don't actually just
want to stop listening to the previous,
to the text box,
as soon as somebody clicks search again,
I actually wanna stop earlier.
What's the event that happens that makes
me wanna stop listening to the text box?
>> Off Camera 1: Close.
>> Jafar Husain: Close.
Exactly.
That's when I wanna stop listening
to this particular observable.
>> Jafar Husain: Now that is not
the same as a searchButtonClick.
It's the close button inside
of search when we display.
This is what I want to listen to.
So how do I cause this searchButtonClicks,
or technically the sub
expression key presses?
What I really want to do
is I wanna complete that.
I wanna complete this when
the search button is clicked.
So I only want to listen to the key
presses until a search button is clicked.
>> Off Camera 1: You mean until
the close button's clicked?
>> Jafar Husain: Excuse me, close button.
Thank you.
I only want to listen to key presses
until the close button is clicked.
So how am I gonna do it?
What's the right operator to use here?
>> Off Camera 2: I mean it
would be like our drag, right?
You start listening at the mouse down,
you stop listening at the mouse up.
>> Jafar Husain: Right.
>> Off Camera 2: You start listening at
the search button,
you stop listening at the close button.
>> Jafar Husain: Yes.
So what's the operator I use?
What's the operator I'm
using to drag it up?
>> Off Camera 1: Take until.
>> Jafar Husain: Take until.
So what do I have to do?
I have to takeUntil.
>> Jafar Husain: And I don't have
an observable for the closes yet, so
why don't we just create one of those?
>> Jafar Husain: Now I'm
actually going to create it here.
I'm not going to create it out here.
Why does it matter where I create it?
So I could put closeClicks here.
I could go observable from
event
>> Jafar Husain: Is it closeButton?
>> Off Camera 3: That would
affect what our function is.
>> Jafar Husain: I heard that
would affect other functions
>> Off Camera 3: It's not the right scope.
>> Jafar Husain: It's not the right scope.
>> Off Camera 1: It only
matters inside the form.
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah.
Well, let's take the thought experiment
that we only actually-.
So instead of just showing this form,
let's say,
in this code when you click search we
actually create the DOM elements, right?
So, maybe at this level of scope,
closeButton isn't even there, right?
So, but now here inside of here,
is closeButton available?
Yeah, because we know we've
shown the search button, right?
Now that's technically not entirely
true because it relies on order.
It relies on the order
of this event handler
just happening to execute
before this function.
And that's a dangerous place to be.
We don't want to be in that place.
And so sometimes a pattern that people
will use is they will have an ing and
an ed, observable in their application.
Search opening, search opened.
So when you have a search
opening observable,
you can do some side effect and then
cause a search opened observable to fire.
And then when you listen to
the search opened observable,
you can be sure that all the side
effects that needed to occur
in order to create those dom elements
have successfully completed.
Does that make sense?
We'll come back to that.
We're going to have to
explain a new concept
to explain how that
works in just a moment.
So but for now, let's rely on the fact
that just will happen to work this way.
Cuz I believe it will based
on the subscription order.
So now that we've created closeClicks,
we can do a takeUntil on closeClicks.
And now, what's the right
flattening strategy to use?
We still haven't put in one.
We could use switch latest.
>> Jafar Husain: The truth is, all of
them are- well, actually that's not true.
[LAUGH] Notice, we still see the search
button when we open the form, right?
That's probably not the way it
would work in a real application.
You'd probably click search and
then you'd move to this form, and
you wouldn't see
the search button anymore.
But who knows, maybe it's in the toolbar
and somebody can click search again.
So it's possible somebody could click
search again before clicking close and
then what would happen?
>> Jafar Husain: Probably
not something good, right?
We'd probably either create the DOM
elements twice, which we wouldn't want, or
we would avoid creating
the DOM elements twice but
subscribe up to the text
box a second time.
So we wouldn't want that.
So one thing we could do and one thing
I would probably do in this instance,
is inside of searchButtonClicks
I would hide the search button.
>> Jafar Husain: That's one thing we could
do, although let's not go that route.
Another route we could go
is we can just make sure
to clean up the DOM element if it's there,
or do nothing effectively.
If the search form is already visible
that's probably a better way to go.
Cuz you might have search in the toolbar,
for example.
So we can check to see if
the display is already visible.
I guess I can leave this logic out here,
cuz we're not currently dynamically
creating the DOM nodes.
But you'd imagine, if you were dynamically
creating the DOM nodes, first you'd check
to see if the DOM node existed, and
then you wouldn't dynamically create it.
Does that make sense?
So now under that circumstance, the fact
that somebody could click search again.
What's the right
flattening pattern to use?
>> Off Camera 3: Switch latest.
>> Jafar Husain: Switch latest, yeah.
Because then they can click search
as many times as they want, right?
And then we were just gonna unhook
from the event handler, and
then hook it up again.
So if I go,
>> Jafar Husain: Now
here's a question,
where does the switchLatest go?
>> Jafar Husain: Just want
to make sure I'm all-.
So to make sure we really
understand what we're doing here,
where do I put the switchLatest?
>> Jafar Husain: I put it here?
>> Jafar Husain: How many
dimensions is this observable?
>> Off Camera 3: Three.
>> Jafar Husain: This sub expression right
here is actually only one dimension
because we've already switchLatest it.
We took every key press, we mapped it into
an observable that represents a request.
And because we we represented every item
in the observable with another observable,
we got a two dimensional observable.
And then we had that concurrency
probably wanted to solve and so
we use which latest to flatten it out so
we only got the latest result.
So this itself is a one
dimensional observable.
If I applied switchLatest to a one
dimensional observable, what happens?
What do we think?
What happens if we concatAll,
a flat array?
>> Off Camera 1: It errors
>> Jafar Husain: It errors.
Yeah.
ConcatAll, switchLatest,
mergeAll they're all expected to
work on two dimensional collections.
So I can't apply switchLatest here.
Where would I apply it then?
>> Off Camera 1: The map?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, a map down here.
Why?
Because now since this is an observable,
we know this is a nice flat observable.
But we're creating it for every
single searchButtonClick here, right?
Because we're creating this observable
inside the map function for
every single time somebody clicks search.
So we create this observable.
So we actually, at this level,
we have a two dimensional observable.
Because for every searchButtonClick
we're creating the stream of search
results from the server.
And so we'll switchLatest.
And that'll work regardless of whether
the search button is visible or not.
>> Jafar Husain: Let's see if that worked.
>> Jafar Husain: Okay?
Now notice,
we still don't have our close
button doing anything, right?
That would be kind of ideal.
We'd our close button doing something.